My experience with bullying
ultimately started
in physical education
when this kid who shared a locker
a few spaces away from me
took that opportunity
and started to verbally attack me.
I first experienced bullying
in elementary school,
but it was little stuff, nothing too big.
In middle school is when
it was really, really something.
It was upsetting that I
was being bullied; it made me feel
like I was doing something wrong.
Why did I have to be the target?
It got really personal.
He would call me names.
He would say that, you know,
I wasn’t good at anything, that no one
cared about me, that I was
dumb, that I was weak.
Especially after he found out
that I was a Witness,
the texts just got even more intense.
It was one day specifically
that was really bad.
It started in a classroom.
I heard one girl
talk to another girl about me,
right in front of me, and these were lies.
We went to lunch, and I was cornered again.
‘Is this how middle school is going to be?
‘I don’t have anybody to be with,
to hang out with during school,
because everybody doesn’t like me.’
I felt no one liked me.
It was the worst day ever.
I no longer felt
that I was valuable at that point.
I was starting to feel more that I was
this weak person, that I was
defenseless, that no one cared about me,
and that I was worthless to anybody.
So hearing that over and over
really took a toll
on my mental health and my emotional health.
I think at my lowest point,
after receiving so many
of these vicious attacks,
I started to have really,
really dark feelings.
And I realized that I shouldn’t let this go
any further than it already had.
That was the moment
when I knew I had to get help.
I told my parents about it, of course.
And especially on the worst day,
I told them everything.
My parents always brought up scriptures
—Proverbs 27:12.
Anytime I saw the bullies,
I would avoid them as much as possible.
Another thing that I was always doing
was praying constantly
—always praying—
before school, during school, after school.
There were times
that I would go into the library
and just read books, just stay to myself.
During those times, I would also pray
to Jehovah, and he was a Friend to me.
He was Somebody that I could speak
to on this matter.
I did end up talking to my parents about it.
They let me get my side of the story out.
They were listening,
and they wanted to help out.
And they made me feel loved.
I definitely took this time
to reach out to the elders.
And they really encouraged me and assured me
that I was not only somewhere
where I was needed
but that I was also somewhere
where I was wanted.
I took some practical steps.
I moved my locker;
I made sure not to retaliate.
Walking away is something very powerful.
Retaliation is something that’s weak
because you’re giving in to your emotions,
and you’re just lashing out.
Eventually, the bully got suspended,
which gave me some peace.
He ended up coming back after a week,
and he started up again with the attack.
I noticed that he hadn’t changed at all,
but I had.
I was much more confident.
With that change, I began to fear him less.
I wasn’t scared of him.
I just saw him as this person
who wanted attention from me.
All the principles that you read
about whether in “Young People Ask”
or scriptures that you pick out
—everything really, really helps.
And you can either see the situation
die down or that it’s not that bad.
You can deal with it, or it just stops.
And it was so encouraging for me,
and it helped strengthen
my faith in seeing how Jehovah
really is there to help.
Don’t keep this to yourself.
Don’t bottle it up,
because that’ll make things worse.
This is a problem that won’t go away
because you ignore it.
You need to talk to someone.
Talk to your parents, talk to your friend,
talk to Jehovah, talk to someone
in the congregation.
Because if you don’t know what to do,
they’ll help you find out
what to do and they’ll give you guidance.
And you’ll be so impressed
by how much Jehovah takes care of you,
and he’ll show you that you are loved by him.